#### Development Testing

When considering the architecture of our system and what tests would be key to implement we must first consider the creation of the database, we did this by running through our database creation functionality and then run a series of queries to make sure that the database size and format matches our ideal database. Most importantly within the database we considered each individual item. We set up a series of tests which proceed to create a new populated item within the database and then try and retrieve the same item, we then compared these results to make sure that many types of items can be correctly added.

The user facing side of the system was key in many ways and thus we wanted to ensure that the end user would have a smooth experience. As such we had to make sure that the queries within both simple and advanced search are represented accurately when passed to the back end. As such we use unit testing to compare a series of different inputs and compare their various results. We also considered that we must make sure the front end works in a timely manner and we initially considered timing tests, on reflection it seemed that these tests would provide us with a lot of extraneous data. Combining this with the inherent time delay of the Archive Image API made us realise that a more heuristic manual approach would prove superior and allow us to gauge how timing affected the users experience intuitively.

We used the SpringBoot testing framework, within which we used Junit, to create our series of tests as it is inherently tied with the Spring framework we use within our system. This should allow testing to be more intuitive and less likely to cause any unwanted issues within the system.

The most pressing issue when it came time for us to implement tests was the timing and limited scope of the data provided by the client. Once we were around a month underway with the project we where given a small set of test data upon which we built a conceptual testing framework, much later in the project however we were given a much larger set of more realistic data that was vastly different from the original sample and as such required us to completely change our ideas about how we would implement testing.

There are a series of challenges we faced when considering rigorous testing and the most glaringly obvious is that the data provided by the Bristol Archives and Museum was wildly inconsistent and is filled with various edge cases (e.g. data being spread across fields or in the wrong field completely) and situations where no data is even provided in a field. As such we can try our best to test the accuracy of our data storage but it would impossible to accurately represent all data given to us and as such we must try and broadly test these values without too much worry about finite detail.
