# Evaluation

To evaluate our product we decided to conduct a showcase meeting with the client. We felt this would be best in assessing whether we had developed a product that met their requirements and allowing us to garner instant feedback. Throughout the session we gathered responses while they navigated our web application. We wanted them to focus on trying out the core features and seeing how it would fit into their prospective workflow. These features included the simple search and advanced search, which we expected the client to be familiar with as they have seen these features be developed over the course of the project. We were also familiar with these interview style meetings as we had structured our interactions with our client in a similar manner throughout the year. We quickly realised that these methods providided us with detailed information and a valuable human insight, enabling us to develop in an agile manner by pivoting our focus to the areas the client deemed key. For these reasons we chose to use this style of feedback for our evaluation.

While they used the simple search and advanced search features we asked them questions such as: "Does it feel responsive, do you feel that it is faster than the Archives system, to search the database?" to which they responded "Yes, a lot faster, compared to our other system, you've seen how slow it is, you know it takes about 10-15 minutes to return a result so your product taking a few seconds is great." We noted these responses down to ensure we knew what we had evidence of meeting requirements and to document what needed slighty adjusting. After 15 minutes of questioning the user while they used these features, we took back control of the product as we wanted to show the client the upload csv functionality that they would not understand without an explanation, something we will provide a manual for, ensuring that it is used correctly. The client further confirmed how necessary a user manual was as they directly asked for one after the demonstration, to which we replied that we already had this in mind. 

After positive feedback about what we had produced we asked the client if they felt anything was missing or possibly could be added, to improve the product. Though they did not think anything was missing, they did ask for potential additional features. Though we believed most of the suggestions would be good additions, there was not enough time to fully implement these features. For example one suggestion was to have a different method of browsing, a method that allows you to browse through all the images, something that would require quite a lot of attention to implement. We explained to the client that features like this were not going to be in the final version of the project due to the close deadline, they understood this and expressed that they were pleased with the current state of our product.

Despite most of their additional feedback being to complicated to implement in the short amount of time, there were suggestions that we could implement. For example, they asked for a bit of information about how to successfully upload csv files without a problem. This would be alongside the user guide on how to use our product, and would be displayed on the webpage where you upload the files. We already knew that we needed to make minor UI tweaks before the final release so this was something we could quite easily do, and it would help to ensure that the users upload csv files correctly so that errors and problems are not caused.
